All right.
Welcome back.
Now that we have the scraping functionality done or at least the majority of it let's actually focus
on the gameplay.
The main idea is that we're going to select one item one random quote from this list.
We have all quotes and then using that Laski user to guess it.
And then you know we need to keep track of the number of guesses we check if they're correct or incorrect
if they're incorrect.
We add 1 to the number of guesses and then we give them a hint.
But there's a point where we stop after four guesses then they lose that round and then we just make
the whole thing repeat.
Ask them if they want to play again.
And if they do we start over.
OK.
Let's begin by just selecting one item randomly from all quotes.
I'm going to print all quote any more.
For now I'm not going to add any functions.
I'm not going to make things move things to separate files.
I'm just going to do it kind of spaghetti code style all in a row.
It's not too much code.
But then we can talk about potential Refractories at the end.
So let's start let's import choice so from random you want to use choice which we've used before you
pass in a list and it just returns one random element.
So let's just call this quote equals choice.
All quotes.
And then let's add a print statement that displays the quote.
So we'll start with here's a quote like this or something like that and then do another print and actually
display the quote.
We don't want to do the whole quote we just want the text of the quote.
It's a dictionary.
We just add that in there.
Print here to quote then print the actual quote text.
Let's test it.
And you can see we get Here's a quote.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder blah blah blah.
It may be necessary from time to time to give a stupid or misinformed beholder a black eye.
OK so that is going to print that quote out.
Now we need to add all of our logic and the first thing we need to do.
I'm going to use a while loop so we're going to do this common pattern we've seen before.
We basically ask for input and then we we have a while loop while guess we'll call it doesn't exist
yet.
I'll guess it's not equal to quote author which is what we're working with.
Whatever the author is and we should probably do well guess shot down or lower is not equal to quote
lower quote author lower just so that we don't we don't care about capitalisation and that's also make
a variable here called Nahm guesses are remaining guesses and we'll start at 4.
I like remaining guesses a little longer but some guesses sounds like you might be counting upwards
remaining.
It's clear we're counting downwards.
The remaining guesses is 4 and then we're going to do a while.
I guess that lower is not equal to quote author.
Lower gas has not been defined yet and I'm going to start it as an empty string and then in here will
set guess equal to input.
So we ask the user for an input and the regional do an F string so I can say who said this quote and
then tell them how many guesses they have remaining guesses remaining and then we'll just interpret
remaining guesses like that.
We ask them again while gestalt lower is not equal to the quote author and for testing purposes.
Let's start by printing the author.
So it's kind of defeats the game but let's just print the author so that we know what the author is
and we can test that this code successfully runs and at the end.
Let's just add a print after Wildblue.
OK so what should happen at this point we get all the results and are not storing them in a file so
right now.
Every time I run this file scraping happens again it is OK for now and we're picking one quote.
We are printing the text and the author.
We have guests set to an empty string then this variable here while Guest out lower is not equal to
quote author though or we are going to re ask for it.
Re-ask.
When are we going to prompt for input again.
And hopefully it will stop if we get it right.
OK so who said this quote.
Guess is remaining forward.
We should add a space or a new line potentially after this.
It is C.S. Lewis and must.
Let's test that our down case works like this.
So my capitalization doesn't matter.
And we made it out OK.
That seems like it's working fine.
Next before we forget.
Let's decrement remaining guesses so every time we have to re prompt the user We're going to say remaining
guesses minus equals 1 and so then in here we should also have an end where we're just going to check
if remaining guesses is greater than zero.
And if it does hit zero then we'll print.
After a while loop and that will be our code that runs when the game is over.
OK so we've got this remaining guess is minus equal 1.
Now let's actually add into our logic.
So the first time the user gets it wrong we give him a hint where we take the ref that you are l for
the author's bio and we go requests so we have to make another request and scrape.
But that's only if remaining guesses is equal to 3.
That means that they guessed once we need two equal signs.
Ok if that's the case we're now going to need to make a request.
So I'll call this rez because requests don't get and the euro is going to be the trough that we stored.
But if I go back and scroll way back here you can see that the bio link is stored like this so it's
a relative know so I need to put the base URL there as well.
So an F string will help.
Will do.
Double quotes and its base.
You are L and then after that you want quote which is the individual quote We chose and within that
we want you to be careful about quotation marks need single I'm using double on the outside.
We want a link that will then go make the request for us and then we're going to need to pass that into
beautiful soup.
So I'll just do another soup equals beautiful soup response.
Rez dot text.
And when you just specify so we don't get that little warning H.T. email that parser.
Now what are we looking for in this response.
Well we can just check if it works first so we could just print the whole thing.
Print soup up body and let's see what happens now.
No syntax errors please.
Here's our quote.
Here is the author's name.
I'm not going to guess it correctly though on the first time I guessed the wrong name and then that
triggers the code that makes the request and what we're looking for is where where's that.
Here I actually have one of the potential you are else open for Marilyn Monroe.
If you go back back your and I just click on.
This is the equivalent of what we are requesting.
What we actually want is this born information which is that stored.
Let's look OK so we have a paragraph tag.
And there is a author born date class that we want and then author born location class that we want.
And there's so we can use those to author dashboard date author dashboard dash location.
Let me quickly get out of here by guessing correctly.
OK.
So in here instead of printing the souped up body we're now going to do let's call it birth date equals
soup up find and then we'll find where class equals.
And it was author Dasch born date.
And then we got the text from that text.
So that will be the inside of that item.
I think it was always it a strong tag some tag that had this class.
We want the inside that actually has the date and that's a bit different than how we got the date from
the rhythm blog in one of the previous examples where the date wasn't.
I don't think it was displayed.
We were getting it from an attribute.
Here it actually inside of an element instead of it in between two tags.
All right.
And then we've got birth place and that's going to be a up find.
Same thing class underscore equals except author born location get text.
OK.
And then we're just going to print a message to the user.
It's something like here's a hint
and then we'll say the author was born in and then we'll do the birth date.
And then another in and then birth place let's test this little bit out you run the code.
Ok so we want to get it wrong the first time so we'll do this and say it's working successfully making
that request and parsing the response.
Here's a hint.
The author was born I guess you should say on July 31st 1965 in.
All right.
And a little work to do there in South Gloucester class here.
I have no idea.
In the UK.
All right.
And then if we guess it correctly let's see what happens.
I get it wrong again.
And another time we have one more guest remaining.
OK.
And then we still get game over.
Cool.
So let's let's fix this before Arthur was born on.
I guess we're getting to inds because he's in contained in here somewhere.
If we look at Marilyn Monroe's and inspect that.
Yes.
So it is already in this part of the text.
We can get rid of the in here and just have a space.
OK.
All right so now we have the two other hints so we'll just do an elf and then remaining guess's calls
to let's do the first initial.
So to find the first initial If the author's name we can just do.
Quote author which will give us the name of the author and then define the first character.
It's a full name so the last name is going to be harder to get.
But to get the first name and the first letter of it all that we need to do is access zero like that.
And let's just do a print.
Here's actually I me just copy this or part of it at least Here's a hint and then I'll say the ME.
That's brackets in.
Before I forget here in the closing quote What should we say here.
The author's first name author's first name starts with and then author zero and while we're here let's
do the same thing.
Elif remaining guesses equals equals.
One left doesn't like something.
Oh my Puranas missing.
Ok if that's the case he's going to copy this.
But this one is a bit longer to do the last name initial because our name looks like this.
We might have.
I don't know Winston Churchill.
And we can get the W easy to zero with character.
But here we have no idea what index C will be.
So we have to split on the space and then find the first character of.
Once we split it gives us a list.
So then we want the second part of the list.
We don't care about the first part and the first character so that's going to look like this author
who looks like I'm somehow got rid of quote.
There are supposed to be quote author.
OK so quote author and we will split it and actually you know this is going to be a bit long so I'm
going to move it to a variable and we'll just call it last initial equals quote author splits and a
split on a space and then we want the item with the first index that gives us a list with two items.
The first item 0 index is the first name that gives just the last name and then we want the zero with
character of that and then we'll just interpolate last initial and then change this to say the author's
last name starts with OK and then let's add in our final else here.
And or else it's just going to say sorry you ran out of guesses.
And then display the answer the answer was and then I'll just do quotes and didn't f appear and then
will just display quote author perfect.
Let's see what happens.
Moment of Truth here we've got all the Colon's I need.
All right we'll see what happens.
OK.
Invalid syntax.
Oh I knew it.
I knew there's something wrong with double quotes here.
Even though I said we have to pay attention to that.
Somehow still do that.
OK we don't have that anywhere else.
Do we get tested again.
All right.
So first time let's get it wrong.
We get a hint.
The author was born.
OK we're going to guess wrong again.
Author's first name starts with C..
That's correct.
Charles Bukowski.
One more author's last name starts with B.
All right so that's also correct.
And let's get it wrong.
Sorry you ran out of guesses.
The answer was Charles Bukowski.
So our logic is there.
Most of our logic is there.
We need to clean up a couple of things like when we ask for a guess.
Let's add is it best to do it on a new line appear.
Where is that right here.
Who said this quote so we put a newline after or.
Yeah let's do a new line there.
So now when we read the code and it asks us for a guess it should be a little bit clear that we're supposed
to type something.
All right that's fine by me.
You type the guess in here you get me exit out of here quickly.
Let me make sure Actually it works if we get it correct.
As you've already seen.
All right.
And it's not quite working the way it's supposed to because I got it right.
Right on the last guess but we broke out of the loop and said Sorry you ran out of guesses.
The problem we're running into is that we're not actually breaking the loop.
If the user is correct so up top the first thing we should do is just check if guess equals the quote
author down per dot lower.
Same thing over here.
Or we could do a.
Convert all of them to one or the other make a level playing field for comparison.
If that's the case we'll just print if you got it right.
And then the important part.
Break.
So we leave now if we tested let's see what we get.
OK.
Alan Saunders And I'm going to do show the same thing so if I get it wrong.
And then again and over time still.
And then I get it correct.
You got it right.
And then we go to after the while.
All right.
I'm going to end this video right here in the next video.
We'll finish up the functionality and clean things up a little bit.